A ONCE-MISSING SOLDIER NOW FACES
PROSECUTION FOR ABANDONING HIS
POST IN AFGHANISTAN.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY:
YEMEN UNRAVELS.
REBELS SEIZE A KEY AIRPORT ONCE
USED BY AMERICAN FORCES,
AND PUT OUT A BOUNTY FOR THE
CAPTURE OF THE COUNTRY'S
PRESIDENT.
>> Ifill: A DAY OF DECISIONS AND
ARGUMENTS AT THE SUPREME COURT.
JUSTICES REVIVE A PREGNANCY
DISCRIMINATION CLAIM AGAINST
U.P.S., RECT AJE RE-DISTRICTING
PLAN IN ALABAMA, AND QUESTION
REGULATIONS TO REMOVE MERCURY
FROM THE AIR.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, DISEASE
RESISTANT MACHINES.
HOW ROBOTS CAN ADVANCE THE FIGHT
AGAINST EBOLA, ONE YEAR AFTER
THE DEADLY OUTBREAK BEGAN.
>> SO IT'S EXPOSING ALL OF THE
SURFACES IN A HOSPITAL ROOM, IN
AN OPERATING ROOM TO THIS
INTENSE V-NON LAMP.
IT WILL LITERALLY KILL ANY VIRUS
OR SPORE THAT WE'VE EVER SEEN.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. ARMY
SERGEANT WHO DISAPPEARED IN
AFGHANISTAN FOR FIVE YEARS, NOW
FACES A COURT MARTIAL.
SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL WAS
FORMALLY CHARGED TODAY WITH
DESERTION AND AVOIDING MILITARY
SERVICE.
BERGDAHL LEFT HIS POST IN 2009,
WAS CAPTURED BY THE TALIBAN AND
HELD UNTIL HIS RELEASE LAST MAY.
WE'LL HAVE SOME OF THE ARMY'S
ANNOUNCEMENT, AND REACTION FROM
SERGEANT BERGDAHL'S DEFENSE
ATTORNEY, AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE QUESTIONS,
BUT NO ANSWERS TODAY, ABOUT THE
GERMAN AIRLINER THAT SMASHED
INTO A MOUNTAINSIDE IN THE
FRENCH ALPS.
TUESDAY'S DISASTER KILLED ALL
150 PEOPLE ON BOARD AND LEFT
INVESTIGATORS LOOKING,
LITERALLY, FOR BITS AND PIECES.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM THE
SCENE.
>> THE SEARCH BEGAN AT DAY
BREAK, THE HUNT BY HELICOPTER
FOR WHAT REMAINS OF 150
PASSENGERS AND CREW.
THE HUNT FOR CLUES AS TO WHAT
EXACTLY HAPPENED HERE.
BECAUSE WHY THE GERMANWINGS
AIRBUS A-320 CAME DOWN IN THIS
REMOTE AND CRAGGY RAVINE REMAINS
A MYSTERY.
THERE WAS NO DISTRESS CALL OR
CONVERSATION WITH THE PILOTS TAF
PLANE SUDDENLY BEGAN TO DESCEND.
THE PILOTS WERE EXPERIENCED.
THE PLANE'S SAFETY RECORD AND
THE WEATHER WERE GOOD.
FRENCH POLICE SCOURING THE
FRENCH ALPS HAVE NOT RULED OUT
TERRORISM COMPLETELY BUT THEY
WILL SUGGEST SOME OTHER
CATASTROPHIC EVENT ON BOARD IS
MORE LIKELY.
THE PLANE CRASHED JUST ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THIS MOUNTAIN
HERE.
IT WAS TRAVELING SO FAST THAT IT
BROKE INTO VERY SMALL PIECES.
THE AREA IS ONLY REALLY
ACCESSIBLE BY HELICOPTER AND THE
POLICE WHO ARE SEARCHING ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THIS MOUNTAIN SAY
THE DEBRIS HAS BEEN SCATTERED
FAR AND WIDE.
THIS AFTERNOON, THE LEADERS OF
FRANCE AND GERMANY ARRIVED TO
SEE THE CRASH SITE FOR
THEMSELVES.
THE DEAD INCLUDE 72 GERMANS, AT
LEAST 49 FROM SPAIN.
PRIME MINISTER RAJOY HAS ALSO
FLOWN IN TO MEET RECOVER TEAMS
AND THE RELATIVES OF THE DEAD
WHO HAVE CHOSEN TO COME.
THIS IS THE WORST AIR DISASTER
ON FRENCH SOIL IN DECADES AND
FRANCE'S PRESIDENT IS DETERMINED
TO FIND OUT WHY.
>> DEAR ANGELA, DEAR MARIANO,
REST ASSURED WE'LL FIND OUT
EVERYTHING AND WE'LL SHED FULL
LIGHT ON THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF
THIS CATASTROPHE.
>> Reporter: THE PLANE'S
SO-CALLED BLK BOACX IS IN FACT
ORANGE.
INVESTIGATORS SAY IT WILL TAKE
SEVERAL DAYS TO MAKE SENSE OF
THE COCKPIT VOICE RECORDINGS
INSIDE.
ONLY THE EXTERIOR OF THE SECOND
BOX HAS BEEN FOUND AND ITS
MEMORY CARD IS REPORTEDLY
MISSING.
IN THE MEAN TIME, IT WILL TAKE
SEVERAL WEEKS AND DNA SAMPLES TO
IDENTIFIED ALL THOSE WHO DIED.
>> I'LL SAY IT AGAIN, IT WON'T
BE DONE IN FIVE MINUTES.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE SEVERAL
WEEKS.
EVERYONE HAS TO BE AWARE OF THE
FACT THAT THIS IS GOING TO TAKE
SOME TIME.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, THE
TINY VILLAGE IS WAITING TO
RECEIVE THE BODIES AND GRIEVING
RELATIVES.
ONE OF THE QUIETEST CORNERS OF
FRANCE HAS BEEN TRANSFORMED INTO
ONE OF THE BUSIEST.
>> Ifill: U.S. OFFICIALS
CONFIRMED TODAY THAT THREE
AMERICANS WERE ON THE AIRLINER.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY HEADED BACK TO THE
IRAN NUCLEAR TALKS TODAY, WITH A
DEADLINE BEARING DOWN.
THE UNITED STATES AND FIVE OTHER
COUNTRIES ARE TRYING TO WORK OUT
A FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT WITH IRAN
BY THE END OF THE MONTH.
THE TALKS HAVE DRAWN STRONG
CRITICISM FROM ISRAEL AND
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS.
KERRY FIRED BACK TODAY, BEFORE
LEAVING WASHINGTON.
>> WHAT HAPPENS IF AS OUR
CRITICS PROPOSE WE JUST WALK
AWAY FROM A PLAN THAT THE REST
OF THE WORLD DEEMED TO BE
REASONABLE?
IT COULD HAPPEN.
WELL, THE TALKS WOULD COLLAPSE,
IRAN WOULD HAVE THE ABILITY TO
GO RIGHT BACK TO SPINNING ITS
CENTRIFUGES AND ENRICHING TO THE
DEGREE THAT THEY WANT, IF THAT'S
WHAT THEY WANT, IF THAT'S WHAT
THEY CHOOSE, AND THE SANCTIONS
WILL NOT HOLD.
>> Woodruff: IRAN ISSUED ITS OWN
WARNING TODAY.
FOREIGN MINISTER MOHAMMED JAVAD
ZARIF SAID ANY NUCLEAR DEAL MUST
INCLUDE THE IMMEDIATE LIFTING OF
ALL SANCTIONS.
HE TOLD IRAN'S OFFICIAL STATE
NEWS AGENCY: "THIS IS THE
POSITION THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS
INSISTED ON FROM THE START."
THE U.S. AND THE OTHER WESTERN
POWERS HAVE CONSISTENTLY SAID
SANCTIONS MUST BE LIFTED ONLY
GRADUALLY.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. HAS LAUNCHED
NEW AIR STRIKES IN IRAQ TO JUMP-
START A STALLED OFFENSIVE
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE FORCES.
A SENIOR U.S. OFFICIAL SAYS THE
STRIKES HIT ISIS TARGETS IN
TIKRIT THIS EVENING.
IRAQI TROOPS AND SHIITE
MILITIAS, GUIDED BY IRAN, HAVE
ENCIRCLED THE CITY, BUT THEY'VE
STALLED AGAINST DUG-IN
OPPOSITION.
UNTIL TODAY, THE IRAQIS HAD NOT
ASKED FOR AMERICAN AIR SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT OF
AFGHANISTAN VOICED CONFIDENCE
TODAY THAT HIS GOVERNMENT CAN
MAKE PEACE WITH THE TALIBAN.
IN AN HOUR-LONG ADDRESS, ASHRAF
GHANI TOLD THE U.S. CONGRESS
THAT THE KEY IS GETTING TALIBAN
FIGHTERS TO BREAK ALL TIES WITH
TERROR.
>> THE TALIBAN NEED TO CHOOSE
NOT TO BE AL QAEDA AND BE
AFGHAN.
PROVIDED THAT COMBATANTS AGREE
TO RESPECT THE CONSTITUTION AND
THE RULE OF LAW AS THE OUTCOMES
OF NEGOTIATIONS, WE ARE
CONFIDENT THAT WE CAN FIND A
PATH FOR THEIR RETURN TO
SOCIETY.
>> Woodruff: GHANI ALSO THANKED
THE UNITED STATES AGAIN FOR
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN AID, AND
HE VOWED AFGHANISTAN WILL BE
SELF-RELIANT WITHIN THIS DECADE.
HE SAID, QUOTE: "WE'RE NOT GOING
>> Ifill: THE F.B.I. HAS MADE
MAJOR PROGRESS ON COUNTER-
TERRORISM SINCE 9/11, BUT IT
NEEDS TO MAKE MORE TO MEET THE
ISLAMIC STATE CHALLENGE.
AN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION
REPORTED THOSE FINDINGS TO
CONGRESS TODAY.
IT CALLED FOR BETTER TECHNOLOGY
AND ANALYSIS.
F.B.I. DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY SAID
HE LARGELY AGREES.
>> THERE WAS NO INTELLIGENCE
CAREER SERVICE IN THE FBI UNTIL
AFTER 9/11.
THE PROGRESS HAS BEEN
EXTRAORDINARY, AND SO I DON'T
WANT TO EVER LET THAT BE
FORGOTTEN.
BUT IT'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
AND SO IT'S ABOUT TRAINING, AND
DEPLOYMENT, AND ABOUT CULTURE.
>> Ifill: THE COMMISSION
HIGHLIGHTED THE THREAT OF HOME-
GROWN EXTREMISTS WHO GO ABROAD
FOR TRAINING, THEN RETURN HOME
TO STAGE ATTACKS.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID TODAY HE'D SIGN BIPARTISAN
LEGISLATION TO RESOLVE A LONG-
RUNNING MEDICARE PROBLEM.
HE DID NOT ENDORSE A PARTICULAR
MEASURE, BUT THE HOUSE IS SET TO
VOTE ON ONE TOMORROW.
WITHOUT IT, DOCTORS FACE A HEFTY
CUT IN MEDICARE FEES, A
PROVISION THAT CONGRESS HAS
WAIVED FOR 17 STRAIGHT YEARS.
>> Ifill: IN ECONOMIC NEWS, H.J.
HEINZ COMPANY HAS ANNOUNCED IT'S
BUYING KRAFT FOOD GROUPS.
THE MOVE WOULD CREATE ONE OF THE
WORLD'S LARGEST FOOD AND
BEVERAGE CONGLOMERATES.
IF FEDERAL REGULATORS APPROVE
THE DEAL, THE NEW "KRAFT HEINZ
COMPANY" WILL BRING HEINZ
KETCHUP, OSCAR MAYER, JELL-O AND
OTHER WELL-KNOWN BRANDS UNDER
ONE ROOF.
>> Woodruff: IN MONTGOMERY,
ALABAMA, THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
MARKED THE CONCLUSION, 50 YEARS
AGO, OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS MARCH
FROM SELMA.
THE CROWD CELEBRATED WITH
BANNERS, SONGS AND SPEECHES.
THE EVENTS IN SELMA, AND THE
MARCH, LED TO THE LANDMARK
VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 1965.
>> Ifill: O
INTO A ROUT LATE IN THE DAY.
IT WAS DRIVEN IN PART BY A DROP
IN FACTORY ORDERS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 300 POINTS TO CLOSE
NEAR 17,700.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 120
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED
30.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
BOWE BERGDAHL'S LAWYER ON
TODAY'S CHGES.AR
FROM PREGNANT WORKERS TO MERCURY
REGULATIONS AT THE SUPREME
COURT.
REBELS SEIZE CONTROL OF MORE
PARTS OF YEMEN.
ENGINEERS DEVELOP ROBOTS THAT
CAN HELP ERADICATE EBOLA.
AND, THE UNCERTAIN FUTURE OF THE
ARTS IN AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: NOW MORE ON THE
CASE OF U.S. SARGEANT BERGDAHL..
SINCE BEING RELEASED BY THE
TALIBAN LAST YEAR, IN EXCHANGE
FOR THE TRANSFER OF FIVE
GUANTANAMO DETAINEES TO THE
NATION OF QATAR.
SOON AFTER THAT DEAL, SOME OF
THE MEN WHO SERVED WITH BERGDAHL
CAME FORWARD AND SAID THEY
BELIEVED HE DESERTED HIS POST.
THIS AFTERNOON AT FORT BRAGG,
NORTH CAROLINA, ARMY COLONEL
DANIEL KING ANNOUNCED CHARGES
AGAINST THE SOLDIER.
>> THE U.S. ARMY FORCES COMMAND
HAS THOROUGHLY REVIEWED THE
ARMY'S INVESTIGATION SURROUNDING
SGT. ROBERT BOWDRIE BERGDAHL'S
2009 DISAPPEARANCE IN
AFGHANISTAN AND FORMALLY CHARGE
SGT. BERGDAHL UNDER THE ARMED
FORCES UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY
JUSTICE ON MARCH 25, 2015 WITH
DESERTION WITH INTENT TO SHIRK
IMPORTANT OR HAZARDOUS DUTY AND
MISBEHAVIOR BEFORE THE ENEMY BY
ENDANGERING THE SAFETY OF A
COMMAND, UNIT OR PLACE AND HAS
REFERRED THE CASE TO AN ARTICLE
32 PRELIMINARY HEARING.
AS YOU RECALL, SGT. BERGDAHL
DISAPPEARED JUNE 30, 2009 FROM
COMBAT OUTPOST MEST-LALAK IN
PAKTIKA PROVINCE, AFGHANISTAN
AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY CAPTURED.
REGARDING NEXT STEPS, AN ARTICLE
32 PRELIMINARY HEARING IS A
LEGAL PROCEDURE UNDER THE
UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE
DESIGNED TO DETERMINE WHETHER
THERE IS SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO
MERIT A COURT MARTIAL AND IS
REQUIRED BEFORE A CASE CAN BE
TRIED BY A GENERAL COURT
MARTIAL.
>> Woodruff: AND WITH ME NOW IS
EUGENE FIDELL, SGT. BOWE
BERGDAHL'S LAWYER.
HE'S ALSO A SCHOLAR IN LAW AT
YALE UNIVERSITY.
EUGENE FIDELL, WELCOME.
WE KNOW SERGEANT BERGDAHL GOT
THE NEWS WHILE HE WAS AT I
FORT SAM HOUSTON, TEXAS.
WAS HE EXPECTING THE CHARGE?
WHAT WAS HIS REACTION?
>> I CAN'T TELL YOU HIS REACTION
BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE BREECHING
THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE,
BUT HE WAS -- WHAT I CAN TELL
YOU, I THINK, IN FAIRNESS, IS
THAT HE'S PHILOSOPHICAL ABOUT
THIS ENTIRE CONTROVERSY.
YOU KNOW, IT'S LASTED MANY, MANY
MONTHS MORE, I THINK, THAN ANY
ANTICIPATED.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT HE AND ALL
OF US WOULD LIKE TO SEE OVER,
BUT, AT THE SAME TIME, WE HAVE
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
PROTECTING HIS LEGAL RIGHTS.
>> Woodruff: IS HE GUILTY?
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY, I'M NOT GOING TO GO INTO
THAT.
I'VE MADE A POINT OVER THE TIME
THAT I WAS ASKED TO REPRESENT
SERGEANT BERGDAHL OF NOT
ATTEMPTING TO TRY THE MERITS OF
THE CASE IN THE MEDIA.
I'M GOING TO HOLD TO THAT RULE,
IF YOU DON'T MIND.
>> Woodruff: WHY DID HE LEAVE
HIS POST?
WHAT WAS HE TRYING TO DO?
>> I'M ALSO NOT GOING INTO THAT,
EXCEPT TO SAY THAT MAJOR GENERAL
KENNETH DAAL WHO CONDUCTED THE
INVESTIGATION CONCLUDED HIS
MOTIVES WERE PURE, THAT HE WAS
TRUTHFUL IN DESCRIBING HIS
MOTIVES AND CONDUCT, AND I THINK
THAT'S IMPORTANT.
NOW, THE FACTS OF THE CASE,
INCLUDING MY CLIENT'S
MOTIVATION, WILL COME OUT.
THEY WILL EMERGE AS THIS CASE
NOW MOVES FORWARD INTO A MORE
PUBLIC ARENA.
ARTICLE 31 HEARINGS ARE OPEN TO
THE PUB -- ARTICLE 32 HEARINGS
ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC EXCEPT TO
THE EXTENT OF THE CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE CASE IN
THIS CASE.
I THINK THE PUBLIC WILL HAVE
MORE OF A FEEL FOR HIM, HIS
CONDUCT AND THE PROPER
DISPOSITION OF HIS CASE, GIVEN
ALL THE CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE BEEN
SHOWN A LETTER YOU WROTE TO THE
ARMY IN WHICH YOU SAID THIS
INVESTIGATIVE REPORT CONCLUDES
THAT BERGDAHL'S SPECIFIC INTENT
WAS TO BRING WHAT HE THOUGHT
WERE DISTURBING CIRCUMSTANCES TO
THE ATTENTION OF THE NEAREST
GENERAL OFFICER.
WHAT DISTURBING CIRCUMSTANCES?
>> CONDITIONS IN THE UNIT, IN
THE MANAGEMENT OF THE UNIT AND
WITHIN THE BATTALION OF WHICH
HIS UNIT WAS A PART, AND WE DID
PUT THAT IN THE LETTER, YOU'RE
RIGHT RIGHT.
HIS CONCERN WAS THESE MATTERS
WERE SOMETHING THAT MERITED THE
ATTENTION OF A GENERAL OFFICER.
>> Woodruff: THEN WHY WOULD HE
LEAVE THE POST-IN ORDER TO BRING
IT TO AN OFFICER'S ATTENTION?
>> THAT GETS INTO A LEVEL OF
DETAIL THAT, IF YOU DON'T MIND,
I'LL DEFER COMMENTING ON.
>> Woodruff: YOU ALSO SAID IN
THE LETTER, I BELIEVE, THAT THE
GENERAL'S REPORT CONCLUDED --
AND I GUESS YOU REFERRED TO THIS
JUST A MINUTE AGO -- THAT
BERGDAHL DIDN'T HARBOR AN INTENT
TO REMAIN AWAY PERMANENTLY.
CAN YOU SHED LIGHT ON HOW YOU
KNOW THAT?
>> OH, WELL, WE'VE SAID IT
BECAUSE THAT'S A FACT, AND I
DON'T THINK THAT'S INCONSISTENT
WITH WHAT MAJOR GENERAL DAAL
CONCLUDED.
I WANT TO COMMENT, IF I MAY, WE
HAVE NOT BEEN PERMITTED TO
EXAMINE THE FULL REPORT OF
GENERAL DAAL.
ALL WE GOT WAS THE EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY.
THERE ARE, I BELIEVE, THOUSANDS
OF PAGES OF EXHIBITS.
THERE IS ALSO A FINAL ACTION BY
A GENERAL AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
THE ARMY THAT COMMENTS ON THE
REPORT AND MAKES CERTAIN
RECOMMENDATIONS AND DIRECTIONS.
WE CAN'T REALLY PROCEED WITHOUT
HAVING THE SAME KIND OF
INFORMATION THAT WAS SUPPLIED TO
GENERAL MILLIE, AND THAT IS
GOING TO BE MAJOR ISSUE.
WE'VE GOT TO HAVE THE
INFORMATION ON WHICH GENERAL
DAAL'S DECISION WAS BASED.
WITHOUT THAT WE CANNOT HAV HAVEN
ARTICLE 32 HEARING.
>> Woodruff: BESIDES
DESERTION, EUGENE FIDELL, ONE OF
THE CHARGES LEVELED TODAY WAS
MISBEHAVIOR BEFORE THE ENEMY.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN AND WHAT
DOES THAT MEAN FOR SERGEANT
BERGDAHL?
>> WELL, IT'S PILING ON, TO BE
PERFECTLY HONEST.
IT'S A PRACTICE IN MILITARY
JUSTICE -- AND I SERVED ON
ACTIVE DUTY MYSELF A LONG TIME
AGO -- THE PRACTICE OF MILITARY
PROSECUTORS IS TO TRY TO COME UP
WITH AS MANY WAYS OF CHARGING
THE SAME CONDUCT AND HOPE THAT
SOMETHING STICKS.
THE VIOLATION, IT'S THE SECOND
OF TWO CHARGES UNDER ARTICLE 99
OF THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY
JUSTICE CONCERNING MISBEHAVIOR
BEFORE THE ENEMY BASICALLY IS
ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING THE SAME
THING THAT WAS SAID IN THE
CHARGE UNDER ARTICLE 85 WHICH IS
DESERTION.
I DON'T KNOW WHY IT WAS THROWN
IN, IF IT WAS TO TERRIFY US.
WE'VE ALL BEEN AROUND THE BLOCK,
MY CO-COUNSEL AND I FROM THE
U.S. ARMY, WE'LL DEAL WITH THAT.
IT PRESENTS LEGAL ISSUES AND
WE'LL DEAL WITH THEM.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK THE
SERGEANT WILL GET A FAIR
HEARING?
>> I HAVE TO SAY THAT I HAVE
SOME CONCERNS IN TWO DIMENSIONS.
THE RSTFI IS HIS CASE HAS
RECEIVED A NIAGARA OF
VILIFICATION IN THE MEDIA AND
ELSEWHERE.
I'M NOT GOING TO NAME NAMES.
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHO I'M TALKING
ABOUT.
A NUMBER OF PEOPLE, MANY PEOPLE
HAVE SAID THE MOST DREADFUL
THINGS ABOUT MY CLIENT WITHOUT
KNOWING THE FIRST THING ABOUT
HIS ACTUAL CONDUCT OR HIS ACTUAL
MOTIVATION.
PEOPLE HAVE SAID HE SHOULD BE
SHOT, HE SHOULD HANGED, HE
SHOULD BE SHOT IN THE LEGS AND
THEN SHOT AGAIN.
THE MOST BIZARRE THINGS.
I DO HAVE SOME CONCERN GIVEN THE
AMOUNT OF PUBLICITY THIS CASE
HAS GENERATED OVER THE TIME HE
WAS LIBERATED BY PRESIDENT OBAMA
THAT IT WILL BE VERY, VERY HARD
TO ASSEMBLE A JURY, IF THE CASE
EVER GETS TO A COURT MARTIAL.
THAT'S THE FIRST POINT.
THE SECOND POINT IS THAT THIS IS
AN AREA WHERE I THINK PEOPLE'S
EMOTIONS RUN VERY STRONG, AND
THE CASE HAS BEEN TANGLED UP IN
SOME PEOPLE'S VIEWS OF THE
CURRENT PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES AND VARIOUS OTHER
CONTROVERSIES OVER WHICH
SERGEANT BERGDAHL HAS HAD
ABSOLUTELY NO CONTROL OR
INFLUENCE.
PEOPLE HAVE USED SERGEANT
BERGDAHL AS A PUNCHING BAG AND
LEVER TO GET AT PRESIDENT OBAMA.
THAT'S THEIR PRIVILEGE.
WE HAVE A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY,
BUT LET'S MAKE SURE THAT WE
DON'T LET OTHER EXTRANEOUS
POLITICAL FACTORS WEIGH IN.
BY THE WAY, ANOTHER FACTOR THAT
IS DEFINITELY ON MY MIND IS
WHETHER THERE'S BEEN
BACK-CHANNEL COMMUNICATION THAT
HAS TEND TO BE ADVERSE TO MY
CLIENT I. WE'LL BE FOLLOWING
THIS, EUGENE FIDELL.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: A BUSY DAY AT THE
SUPREME COURT, WHERE JUSTICES
HEARD ARGUMENTS OVER A HIGH-
PROFILE ENVIRONMENTAL CASE.
MORE ON THAT IN A MOMENT.
FIRST, WE TURN TO TWO
SIGNIFICANT DECISIONS, ON THE
DISCRIMINATION CLAIM OF A
PREGNANT WORKER, AND ON THE
POLITICS OF RACE.
AS ALWAYS, JOINING US TO EXPLAIN
HER DAY AT THE COURT IS NEWSHOUR
CONTRIBUTOR MARCIA COYLE OF THE
"NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL."
WE'LL START IN ALABAMA WITH THIS
REDISTRICTING CASE WHICH WE
TALKED ABOUT SOME TIME AGO IN
THE PROGRAM.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE DISTRICT IN
ALABAMA AND WHETHER RACE WAS A
FACTOR.
ON THE LEFT IS THE WAY IT IS NOW
AND ON THE RIGHT IS THE MUCH
LARGER 7th DISTRICT WHICH THE
PLAINTIFFS WERE SAYING HAD BEEN
DRAWN IN ORDER TO PUT ALL THE
BLACK VOTERS IN ONE AREA.
>> THAT WAS THE CLAIM THAT THIS
WAS A RACIAL GERRYMANDER, THAT
BLACK VOTERS WERE PACKED INTO
DISTRICTS THAT WERE ALREADY
MAJORITY DISTRICTS IN ORDER TO
MAKE SURROUNDING DISTRICTS MORE
WHITE AND REPUBLICAN.
THE CLAIM IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL
RACIAL GERMANDER.
A THREE-JUDGE PANEL OF A FEDERAL
DISTRICT COURT AGREED WITH THE
STATE THAT IT WAS NOT RACIAL
GERRYMANDER AND THE ALABAMA
LEGISLATIVE BLACK CAUCUS AND THE
ALABAMA DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE
BROUGHT AN APPEAL TO THE SUPREME
COURT WHICH RULED TODAY.
>> Ifill: 5-4.
5-4, AND THE OPINION WRITTEN
BY JUSTICE BREYER FOUND THE
LOWER FEDERAL DISTRICT COURT
MADE A NUMBER OF ERRORS, TWO
PROBABLY KEY AMONG THE ERRORS,
FIRST THAT THE LOWER COURT HAD
EXAMINED THE RACIAL CLAIM ON THE
BASIS OF THE BOUNDARIES THAT
WERE DRAWN BY THE STATE AS A
WHOLE, INSTEAD OF LOOKING
DISTRICT BY DISTRICT AS TO WHAT
THE LEGISLATURE DID HERE.
AND SECONDLY JUSTICE BREYER SAID
THE LOWER COURT AND STATE
LEGISLATURE RELIED TOO HEAVILY
ON TRYING TO MAINTAIN THE
PERCENTAGES OF MINORITY
VOTERS -- THE SAME PERCENTAGE OF
MINORITY VOTERS THAT WERE
APPROVED IN THE OLD PLAN,
BLEACHING THAT THAT WAS HOW IT
HAD TO COMPLY WITH THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT, WHICH BARS AT THE
TIME A STATE LIKE ALABAMA FROM
DILUTING THE INFLUENCE OF
MINORITY VOTERS.
>> Ifill: JUSTICE BREYER SAID
TODAY ASKING THE WRONG QUESTION
MAY WELL HAVE LED TO THE WRONG
ANSWER.
WHAT DID HE MEAN BY THAT?
>> HE MEANT INSTEAD OF ASKING
WHAT PERCENTAGES ARE NEEDED TO
MAINTAIN THE SAME NUMBER OF
MINORITY VOTERS IN A DISTRICT,
THE COURT AND THE LEGISLATURE
SHOULD HAVE BEEN ASKING WHAT
PERCENTAGE IS NEEDED TO PRESERVE
THE ABILITY OF MINORITY VOTERS
TO ELECT CANDIDATES OF THEIR
CHOICE.
>> Ifill: WE SHOULD SAY
BRIEFLY THERE WAS PRETTY STRONG
PUSHBACK FROM THE DISSENTING
SIDE INCLUDING JUSTICE SCALIA.
>> JUSTICES SCALIA AND THOMAS
WROTE SEPARATE DISSENTS.
JUSTICE SCALIA SAW THIS A MORE
SWEEPING DECISION THAN JUSTICE
BREYER PRESENTED IT.
HE DIDN'T SAY EXACTLY HOW IT
PLAYED OUT BUT FELT IT HAD
SERIOUS IMPLICATION FORCE THE
ONE MAN, ONE PERSON, ONE VOTE
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE IN THE
CONSTITUTION.
JUSTICE THOMAS FELT -- HE
ACTUALLY CRITICIZED THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND
SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS LIKE THE
ACLU SAYING THEY HAD HIJACKED
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT, THAT THIS
WAS SIMPLY A QUEST FOR THE BEST
RACIAL QUOTA.
>> Ifill: THE SECOND DECISION
WHICH ALSO JUSTICE BREYER WROTE,
THIS TIME 7-2 DECISION, HAD TO
DO WITH WHETHER AN EMPLOYEE OF
UPS WAS DISCRIMINATED AGAINST
BECAUSE OF HER PREGNANCY WHEN
THEY WERE MAKING SPECIAL
ACCOMMODATIONS FOR OTHER
EMPLOYEES.
IN FACT, JUSTICE BREYER WROTE
WHY WHEN THE EMPLOYER
ACCOMMODATED SO MANY COULD IT
NOT ACCOMMODATE PREGNANT WOMEN
AS WELL?
HOW DID THE COURT REASON THIS
THROUGH?
>> UPS HAD THREE CATEGORIES OF
EMPLOYEES WHO COULD GET
ACCOMMODATIONS IF THEY WERE NOT
ABLE TO DO THEIR REGULAR JOBS,
AND PREGNANT WORKERS WERE NOT
ONE OF THE THREE CATEGORIES.
JUSTICE BREYER SAID TODAY THAT
PREGNANT WORKERS LIKE PEGGY
YOUNG, IN THIS CASE, COULD
PREVAIL IN THE LOWER COURTS IF
THE PREGNANT WORKER SHOWED SHE
WAS DENIED AN ACCOMMODATION THAT
HAD BEEN OFFERED TO A
NON-PREGNANT WORKER SIMILAR IN
THEIR ABILITY OR INABILITY TO
WORK AND THE EMPLOYER COULD NOT
COME FORWARD WITH A LEGITIMATE,
NON-DISCRIMINATORY REASON FOR
THE DIFFERENCE, AND THAT'S WHAT
JUSTICE BREYER'S QUOTE WAS
ABOUT.
>> Ifill: HE SAID PROVIDE ME
WITH A REASONABLE REASON,
PERHAPS THIS COULD HOLD.
>> HE SAID THE LOWER COURT
FAILED TO ASK THE CRITICAL
QUESTION OF UPS, WHY DID YOU
TREAT PREGNANT WORKERS
DIFFERENTLY?
SO BOTH THE PREGNANT WORKER IN
THIS CASE AND THE CHALLENGES TO
ALABAMA'S REDISTRICTING PLAN GET
BASICALLY A RE-DO IN THE LOWER
COURTS.
>> Ifill: THIS IS CONSIDERED
AT LEAST FOR NOW A VICTORY FOR
THE WOMAN IN THIS CASE AND FOR
WOMEN'S RIGHTS GROUPS.
>> YES, IT IS.
THE FRAMEWORK THAT JUSTICE
BREYER ANNOUNCED TODAY IS NOT A
NEW ONE IN DISCRIMINATION CASES,
BUT HE VERY CLEARLY SAID WHAT
EACH SAID HAS TO DO IN ORDER TO
EITHER PREVAIL ON A PREGNANCY
DISCRIMINATION CLAIM OR PREVENT
BEING HELD LIABLE FOR
DISCRIMINATION.
>> Ifill: MARSHA COIL,
"NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL."
>> Ifill: NOW WE TURN TO TODAY'S
ARGUMENTS IN A CASE THAT PITS
ENERGY PRODUCERS AGAINST THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
IN QUESTION, WHETHER E.P.A.-
MANDATED LIMITS ON TOXIC
EMISSIONS GO TOO FAR, AND COST
COMPANIES TOO MUCH.
HERE TO MAKE THE ARGUMENT HEARD
AT THE COURT TODAY, ARE: VICKIE
PATTON OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
DEFENSE FUND, WHICH FAVORS THE
REGULATION.
AND DAVID RIVKIN, AN ATTORNEY
WHO REPRESENTS SOME OF THE
COMPANIES OPPOSED.
IS THIS ABOUT THE DANGEROUS OF
MERCURY EMISSIONS OR IS IT ABOUT
WHO PAYS FOR THEM OR IS IT ABOUT
DEFINING WHAT THE COST IS?
LET'S START WITH YOU, DAVID
RIVKIN.
>> IT'S NOT ABOUT THE DANGERS AT
ALL.
IT'S ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY IN
ENVIRONMENTAL CASES TAKEN ON BY
THE HIGH COURT, ABOUT E.P.A. WE
ARE WRITING THE STATUTE, THEY
CLEARLY REQUIRED REASONABLE
COST.
PUTTING OUT A RULE THAT COSTS
OVER $9 BILLION A YEAR BUT HAS
THE BENEFITS OF BETWEEN 500 AND
6 MILLION WHICH IS A HIGH RATIO
WHICH IS INAPPROPRIATE AND THE
LAST MINUTE A HAIL MARY ARGUMENT
USING A REASON NOT ARTICULATED
BY THE AGENCY IN THE RECORD
NAMELY THAT BECAUSE OF
OPPORTUNITY OF COSTS UNDER THE
DIFFERENT STATUTE IS SUBJECTING
THE ENTIRE UTILITY AND THE STATE
OF ITS REGULATION.
DISRESPECT OF THE LAW AND THE
JUDICIARY RIIN PART BECAUSE
JIESHED RIIS SUPPOSED TO REVIEW
THE RECORD AND WHAT THE AGENCY
DID, NOT GRAPPLE WITH THE
ARGUMENTS.
AND IT IS UTTERLY REGRETTABLE.
THERE'S NOTHING TO DO WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL.
THE REASON THERE'S A SPECIAL
SECTION THAT DEALT WITH THE
ELECTRIC UTILITY INDUSTRY IS
IT'S HEAVILY REGULATED.
>> Ifill: I NEED TO LET VICKIE
PATTON START TO REPLY.
>> THE CLEAN-AIR PROTECTIONS
HEARD BEFORE THE COURT TODAY ARE
THE SINGLE MOST IMPORTANT CLEAN
AIR SAFEGUARDS WE CAN PUT IN
PLACE AS A NATION FOR OUR
COMMUNITIES AND OUR FAMILIES.
THE COAL PLANTS THAT ARE THE
SUBJECT OF THESE VITAL EMISSIONS
STANDARDS ARE THE SINGLE LARGEST
SOURCE IN OUR COUNTRY OF
MERCURY, ARSENIC, ACID GASES.
THOSE ARE VERY TOXIC
CONTAMINANTS.
MERCURY, THERE ARE FISH
CONSUMPTION REQUIREMENTS,
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
CHILDREN BORN EACH YEAR WITH
MERCURY LEVELS THAT IMPAIR THEIR
BRAIN DEVELOPMENT.
EVERY OTHER MAJOR SOURCE IN OUR
COUNTRY OF MERCURY -- CEMENT
PLANTS, INCINERATORS, INDUSTRIAL
BOILERS -- HAVE TAKEN IMPORTANT
MEASURERS TO LOWER THEIR MERCURY
EMISSIONS.
THE QUESTION BEFORE THE COURT IS
WILL THE SINGLE LARGEST SOURCE
IN OUR COUNTRY FINALLY DO ITS
FAIR SHARE IN PROTECTING OUR
COMMUNITIES AND FAMILIES FROM
THE MOST TOXIC EMISSIONS IN OUR
ENVIRONMENT.
>> Ifill: IS THE QUESTION
WHETHER THE INDUSTRY WILL DO ITS
FAIR SHARE, OR WHAT THE FAIR
SHARE IS?
>> THE QUESTION BEFORE THE
INDUSTRY IS WHETHER OR NOT IT
WAS REASONABLE FOR E.P.A. TO
FAIL TO CONSIDER COST IN PUTTING
THE UTILITY INDUSTRY IN THIS
REGULATORY BASKET DESPITE CLEAR
STATUTORY OBLIGATIONS.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU DEFINE
COSTS?
BECAUSE THE INDUSTRY OBVIOUSLY
SAY THERE ARE DIFFERENT COSTS.
>> THERE IS NO DISAGREEMENT AS
TO WHAT THE COSTS WERE HERE.
THE AGENCY REFUSED TO CONSIDER
COSTS.
THE AGENCY ORIGINALLY CLAIMED
THEY COULD NOT CONSIDER COSTS.
AN OLD ARGUMENT GENERALLY
CLAIMED THAT THE AGENCY COULD
CONSIDER COSTS BUT SHOULD NOT
HAVE.
A POINT VICKIE MADE, MERCURY IS
A DANGEROUS POLLUTANTENT BUT THE
BENEFITS ATTRIBUTABLE TO MERCURY
REGULATION TO HAVE THE POWER
PLANTS ARE SO TINY BECAUSE TO
HAVE THE SMALL AMOUNT OF MERCURY
EMITTED WHICH IS WHY I MENTIONED
500 TO 6 MILLION VS. 6 BILLION.
THE AGENCY CAME UP WITH OTHER
BENEFITS THAT HAVE NOTHING TO DO
WITH MERCURY.
THEY CAME UP WITH BENEFITS THAT
HAVE TO DO WITH PARTICULATES.
>> Ifill: HEALTH BENEFITS.
YES.
THEY TOOK THE BENEFITS
ATTRIBUTABLE TO TOTALLY
DIFFERENT POLLUTANTS THEY SHOULD
REGULATE UNDER THEIR OWN SECTION
OF THE CLEAN AIR ACT.
>> Ifill: ARE THEY MIXING
APPLES AND ORANGES?
>> NO THE TIME TESTED TEST IS WE
CAN PROTECT OUR CHILDREN AGAINST
POLLUTION AND GROW OUR ECONOMY.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY THOROUGHLY CONSIDERED
COSTS HERE.
THE NARROW LEGAL QUESTION BEFORE
THE COURT WAS HOW DOES THE
AGENCY MAKE ITS THRESHOLD
INQUIRY IN DECIDING TO PROCEED
WITH PROTECTIVE EMISSION
STANDARDS?
THOSE PROTECTIVE EMISSION
STANDARDS WERE DESIGNED WITH TEY
SORT OF TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN
EVERY RESPECT.
BUT THE THRESHOLD QUESTION,
WHICH IS ONE THAT THE AGENCY
FACES ALL OF THE TIME THROUGHOUT
THE NATION'S CLEAN AIR LAWS IN
DECIDING WHETHER TO PUT IN PLACE
EMISSION STANDARDS, IS -- AND
THIS IS THE LANGUAGE THAT
CONGRESS USED -- CONGRESS USED
THIS LANGUAGE -- IT SAYS
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
DETERMINED WHETHER THERE ARE
HAZARDS TO HUMAN HEALTH.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY LOOKED AT THAT LANGUAGE
AND SAID, OKAY, CONGRESS, YOU'VE
TOLD US TO DETERMINE WHETHER
THERE ARE HAZARDS TO HUMAN
HEALTH.
WE BELIEVE OUR JOB IS TO ASSESS
THE HEALTH HAZARDS AND THEN WHEN
WE SET THE EMISSION STANDARDS
BASED ON THE HAZARDS TO HUMAN
HEALTH, WE WILL TAKE INTO
ACCOUNT COSTS AND TECHNOLOGY.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO TAKE THIS
INSIDE THE COURTROOM TODAY
BECAUSE YOU WERE THERE AND I'M
CURIOUS WHETHER YOU HEARD YOUR
ARGUMENT WELL MADE TODAY.
>> REALLY WELL MADE BUT I CANNOT
HELP MYSELF.
THE STATUTE SAYS THE
ADMINISTRATION OF E.P.A. SHALL
REGULATE ABOUT UTILITIES --
>> Ifill: YOU'RE NOT BEEN
HELPFUL READING THAT &O THE
AUDIENCE RIGHT NOW.
>> FORGIVE ME.
THE E.P.A. SHOULD REGULATE IF IT
FINDS IT APPROPRIATE AND
NECESSARY.
THE WORD APPROPRIATE CONVEYS
YOU'RE LOOKING AT MORE THAN
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK.
>> Ifill: THAT'S THE POINT,
THAT'S PART OF THE ARGUMENT IN
THE COURT TODAY.
>> THERE WAS NOTHING ELSE.
>> Ifill: HOW DID THE JUSTICES
RESPOND?
>> ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING
THINGS THAT HAPPENED AT THE
COURT TODAY WAS THAT THERE WERE
A SET OF POWER COMPANIES THAT
WERE BEFORE THE HIGHEST COURT IN
OUR LAND.
THESE ARE POWER COMPANIES THAT
PROVIDE POWER TO OVER 60 MILLION
AMERICANS AND WHAT THEY SAID IS
THAT WE FIND THAT E.P.A.
STANDARDS ARE ECONOMICALLY
REASONABLE, ON THE RECORD BEFORE
THE HIGH COURT, AND THEY SAID
WE'RE ROLLING UP OUR SLEEVES AND
DELIVERING CLEANER, HEALTHIER
AIR AT A FRACTION OF THE COSTS
THAT WERE PREDICTED AND REALLY
DEMONSTRATING THAT WE CAN IN
AMERICA HAVE BOTH CLEAN AIR AND
A STRONG ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: AND THE SUPREME
COURT WILL ULTIMATELY GET THE
LAST WORD.
VICKIE PATTON, DAVID RIVKIN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO THE CHAOS IN
YEMEN, WHICH SEEMS TO BE GROWING
WITH EACH PASSING HOUR, WITH
QUESTIONS OF WHO'S IN CONTROL.
>> Woodruff: THE LAST VESTIGES
OF YEMEN'S GOVERNMENT CRUMBLED
AS SHIITE HOUTHI REBELS ADVANCED
ON ADEN.
THE PRO-AMERICAN PRESIDENT, ABD-
RABBO MANSOUR HADI, HAD TAKEN
REFUGE THERE, BUT THE HOUTHIS
OFFERED $100,000 DOLLARS FOR HIS
CAPTURE, AND LOCAL OFFICIALS
SAID HE FLED ON A BOAT.
HADI'S FOREIGN MINISTER,
SPEAKING FROM EGYPT, DISPUTED
THAT REPORT.
>> ( translated ): UNTIL NOW
ADEN IS STILL STANDING AND THE
PRESIDENT IS STILL IN ADEN AND
HE IS TRYING AS HARD AS POSSIBLE
TO WITHSTAND.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON, THE
STATE DEPARTMENT SAID ONLY THAT
HADI HAS LEFT THE PRESIDENTIAL
PALACE.
>> HE IS NO LONGER AT HIS
RESIDENCE, WHICH YOU'VE SEEN IN
REPORTING, BUT WE CAN CERTAINLY
CONFIRM.
I'M NOT IN A POSITION TO CONFIRM
ANY ADDITIONAL DETAILS FROM HERE
ABOUT HIS LOCATION.
>> Woodruff: THE HOUTHI ADVANCE
WAS AIDED BY FIGHTERS LOYAL TO
FORMER PRESIDENT ALI ABDULLAH
SALEH, WHO WAS OUSTED IN 2011.
THE REBELS NOW CONTROL THE
CAPITAL, SANAA, AND HAVE SPREAD
SOUTH AND WEST.
THEIR ADVANCE, WITH IRAN'S
APPARENT SUPPORT, PROMPTED SAUDI
ARABIA TO STATION FORCES ALONG
ITS BORDER WITH YEMEN.
"VICTORY TO THE REVOLUTION!",
THEY CRIED.
"VICTORY TO THE SOUTH!"
AS THE REBELS CHEERED TODAY,
HADI'S AIDES FORMALLY ASKED THE
SUNNI ARAB STATES TO COME TO HIS
AID.
>> Woodruff: JOINING ME NOW TO
HELP US SORT THROUGH WHAT ALL
THIS MEANS FOR YEMEN, THE
REGION, AND THE UNITED STATES,
IS LES CAMPBELL, REGIONAL
DIRECTOR FOR MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA FOR THE NATIONAL
DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE.
WELCOME TO THE "NewsHour".
SO WHEREVER PRESIDENT HADI IS,
WHETHER HE'S LEFT THE COUNTRY OR
NOT, HAS HIS GOVERNMENT
COLLAPSED?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF IT COMPLETELY
COLLAPSED.
IT'S ON THE VERGE.
HIS MINISTERS HAVE BEEN -- IN
FACT HIS PRIME MINISTER WAS
KIDNAPPED A FEW WEEKS AGO, GOT
AWAY, MINISTERS HELD IN HOUSE
ARREST, THE PRESIDENT IS CLEARLY
ON THE RUN IF HE HASN'T ALREADY
LEFT THE COUNTRY.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT MEANS IT'S
OVER FOR HIM.
THE HOUTHI REBELS HAVE NOT SHOWN
ANY INCLINATION TO GOVERN.
FORMER PRESIDENT ALI ABDULLAH
SALEH IS WAITING BEHIND THE
WINGS.
>> Woodruff: BEHIND WHAT THE
REBELS ARE DOING?
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK THIS IS NOT SO MUCH A
SECTARIAN STRUGGLE OR CIVIL WAR
AS IT IS A PLAY FOR POWER.
THE FORMER PRESIDENT WAS
HUMILIATED, FROM HIS POINT OF
VIEW.
HE LEFT OFFICE UNCEREMONIOUSLY
WITH GULF COOPERATION COUNCIL
AGREEMENT.
I THINK HE WANTS BACK IN AND
DOESN'T LIKE THE FACT HIS FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT TOOK OVER.
SO IT'S NOT OVER YET BUT IT'S
OBVIOUSLY A MESSY, CHAOTIC
SITUATION.
>> Woodruff: TO THE EXTENT
PRESIDENT HADI IS STRUGGLING
RIGHT NOW AND HE HAD THE BACKING
OF THE U.S., WHO IS HELPED BY
THIS?
IS IT THE FORMER PRESIDENT
SALEH?
>> I THINK IT'S CLEAR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT IS MAKING A PLAY TO
GET BACK INTO POWER BUT THERE
ARE OTHER POWER VACUUMS IN
YEMEN.
THE HOUTHI REBELS, I GUESS WE'LL
CALL THEM, HAVE SWEPT THROUGH
THE COUNTRY.
THEY TOOK OVER THE CAPITAL CITY,
BUT IT'S CLEAR THEY'VE DONE SO
WITH AT LEAST THE ACQUIESCENCE
OF SOME OF THE MILITARY UNITS
THAT ARE STILL LOYAL TO THE
FORMER PRESIDENT.
BUT IRAN IS HELPED BY THIS.
I WOULDN'T SAY THAT THEY'RE
ACTIVELY THE ONES CONTROLLING
IT, BUT THIS IS A GROUP, THE
HOUTHI GROUP, WHICH IS A FORM OF
SHIAISM.
THEY HAVE TIES.
MAYBE THIS PUTS THE U.S. OR
SAUDI ARABIA OFF BALANCE.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT'S
PRIMARILY WHAT'S GOING ON.
PRIMARILY WHAT'S GOING ON IS IN
THE COUNTRY, PEOPLE WHO HAD
POWER WANT IT BACK.
>> Woodruff: THE FORMER
PRESIDENT SALEH IS BENEFITED BY
THIS, TO THAT EXTENT, WHO IS HE
ALIGNED WITH?
>> YEMENI HAVE MANY ALLIANCES.
>> Woodruff: NOT PRO AMERICAN.
HE WAS PRO-AMERICAN FOR A
LONG TIME.
HE WAS COOPERATING, PRESIDENT
HADI, WITH THE WESTERN
ANTI-TERRORISM CAMPAIGN, BUT
RIGHT NOW HE'S NOT.
IT DOESN'T SUIT HIS PURPOSE.
PRESIDENT SALEH HAS BEEN ALIGNED
UP UNTIL HE ALMOST LEFT OFFICE
WITH THE SAUDIS, EVEN THOUGH
RIGHT NOW HE SEEMS TO BE ALIGNED
WITH THE HOUTHIS.
PRESIDENT SALEH LED MANY WARS
AGAINST THE HOUTHIS WHO ARE NOW
HIS ALLY.
SO I THINK IT'S HARD TO PUT THIS
INTO AN EASY CATEGORY.
THIS IS A COUNTRY, IT'S NOT A
FAILED STATE -- AND I WANT TO
MAKE THAT CLEAR, THERE ARE MANY
PEOPLE IN YEMEN WHO WANT THE
THINGS TO GO WELL, THERE ARE
PARLIAMENT, PARTIES.
BUT YOU HAVE POWERFUL INTERESTS
WHO ARE ABLE TO PILLAGE THE
WEALTH OF THE COUNTRY, SUCH AS
IT WAS, AND THEY'RE ON THE
OUTSIDE AND WANT BACK IN.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK
QUICKLY ABOUT THE REGION.
WE KNOW PRESIDENT HADI REACHED
OUT TO THE ARAB SUNNI COUNTRIES
IN THE REGION.
WHAT IS THEIR STAKE IN THIS?
>> THEY HAVE A HUGE STAKE.
NO ONE WANTS AN UNTABLE STATE.
YEMEN HAS A LARGE BORDER WITH
SAUDI ARABIA, SO THEY HAVE A BIG
STAKE IN THIS.
THE GCC COUNTRIES SPONSORED A
NATIONAL DIALOGUE CONFERENCE OF
THE LAST TWO YEARS WHICH WAS
SUPPOSED TO BRING STABILITY TO
YEMEN SO THEY HAVE SOME STAKE IN
THIS.
THEY DON'T WANT THOSE TWO YEARS
TO BE WASTED.
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY,
OBVIOUSLY THE UNITED STATES A, I
THINK, PRIMARILY BECAUSE OF THE
PRESENCE OF AL QUAIDA IN THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA WANTS A
STABLE, A GOOD ADDRESS, A GOOD
LEADER, A SET OF PEOPLE THEY CAN
GO TO TO NEGOTIATE VARIOUS
THINGS THAT HAVE TO DO WITH
SECURITY IN THE REGION.
SO MANY COUNTRIES HAVE A STAKE
IN THIS.
>THIS.
>> Woodruff: BOT ONLINE, WHAT
DOES IT MEAN FOR THE UNITED
STATES?
MOST AMERICANS CAN BARELY --
YEMEN IS NOT A COUNTRY THAT'S
BEEN I IN THE HEADLINES.
>> IT'S REMOTE TO MOST AMERICANS
BUT THE STAKES ARE HUGE.
THE SECURITY STAKES ARE HUGE.
AL QUAIDA IS IN YEMEN, NO
QUESTION.
THE IRANIANS HAVE AN INTEREST
AND THE HOUTHI REBELS APPEAR TO
BE TAKING THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S A PROBLEM.
EGYPT, FOR EXAMPLE, THE OTHER
ARAB SUNNI STATES DON'T WANT
ANOTHER UNSTABLE POST-ARAB
STREAM COUNTRY.
BUT, ON THE OTHER HAND, IT'S A
BIG COUNTRY, A LOT OF
POPULATION, POVERTY.
THE WHOLE WORLD HAS A STAKE IN
MAKING SURE IT GOES WELL AND
DOESN'T BECOME A SECTARIAN OR
CIVIL WAR.
IT'S NOT THAT YET BUT ON THE
BRINK.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE WATCHING
THAT, TOO.
LES CAMPBELL, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NEXT, THIS WEEK MARKS
THE ONE YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF THE
EBOLA OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA.
WE'VE LEARNED A LOT IN 12
MONTHS, INCLUDING THIS: HOW
ROBOTS MIGHT ONE DAY HELP QUELL
MEDICAL EPIDEMICS.
THE NEWSHOUR'S MARY JO BROOKS
REPORTS.
IS IS AN UNMANNED AERIAL
VEHICLE.
THIS IS AN AIR ROBOT THAT WE
HAVE BEEN USING FOR --
>> Reporter: ROBIN MURPHY IS
THE INDIANA JONES OF DISASTERS.
THE TEXAS A&M PROFESSOR SHOWED
US HER STORAGE ROOM OF
ROBOT-FILLED CASES READY TO BE
DEPLOYED IN A MOMENT'S NOTICE.
>> THIS CLASS OF ROBOTS ACTUALLY
HAVE BEEN USED THE MOST IN
BUILDING COLLAPSES.
>> Reporter: AS HEAD OF THE
CENTER FOR ROBOT SEARCH ASSIST
AND RESCUE, MURPHY HAS TAKEN HER
HIGH-TECH TEAMMATES TO THE WORLD
TRADE CENTER BOMBINGS, JAPAN,
HURRICANE KATRINA AND THE
MUDSLIDE IN WASHINGTON STATE ONE
YEAR AGO.
HER MISSION, TO USE ROBOTS FOR
TASKS THAT ARE TOO DIFFICULT OR
DANGEROUS FOR HUMANS.
IT'S ONLY NATURAL THAT WHEN THE
EBOLA CRISIS BROKE OUT LAST FALL
IN WEST AFRICA, MURPHY WANTED TO
SEE IF HER DISEASE RESISTANT
MACHINES COULD HELP.
>> THIS IS A NEW SET OF
DISASTERS, A NEW SET OF ISSUES
FOR US, IS THERE ANYTHING TO BE
GAINED?
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS SHE
KNOWS ROBOTS WILL NEVER REPLACE
DOCTORS AND NURSES BUT BELIEVES
IT IS POSSIBLE FOR ROBOTS TO
DELIVER LOGISTICAL SUPPORT,
DELIVER SUPPLIES OR DEPOSE OF
WASTE.
>> THE HEALTHCARE WORKERS WANT
TO BE THERE THEMSELVES TO HELP
THE VICTIMS.
THEY'RE TRYING TO EASE
SUFFERING, SO IF WE CAN LET THEM
SPEND THEIR TIME IN THEIR SUITS
TO DO THOSE TYPES OF THINGS AND
LET THE ROBOTS SWIPE OUT THE
I.V.s, TAKE OUT THE TRASH,
THOSE THINGS, THAT WILL BE THE
BIG WIN.
>> Reporter: IN THIS COUNTRY
HOSPITALS HAVE BEGUN USING
ROBOTS FOR ROUTINE TASKS.
SOME MEDICAL CENTERS USE THEM TO
DISTRIBUTE MEDICINE AND FOOD TO
PATIENTS.
BUT MURPH J SAYS PUTTING ROBOTS
LIKE THAT IN A REMOTE FIELD
HOSPITAL BRING A WHOLE SET OF
OTHER PROBLEMS.
CAN THEY WORK IN LESS THAN IDEAL
CONDITIONS?
>> THEIR TRACK ON AN UNEVEN
FLOOR MIGHT GET CAUGHT.
YOU HAVE DOORS THAT ROBOTS MIGHT
GET TANGLED UP IN, IN THE TENT.
MOS>> Reporter: MOST TO HAVE THE
PROMISING IS THE MUTT, THE
VEHICLE CAN CARRY STRETCHERS
WITH PATIENTS OVER LONG
DISTANCES.
>> IF WE MOVE THIS WAY, IT GOES
THIS WAY.
IF I MOVE BACK THAT WAY, IT GOES
BACKWARDS.
LIKEWISE, I CAN CLIP IT ON MY
BELT AND JUST WALK OFF WITH IT
AND IT WILL FOLLOW ME.
>> Reporter: CLINT ARNETTE
DEMONSTRATED HOW IT WORKS AT
DISASTER CITY, A TRAINING
FACILITY RUN BY TEXAS A&M THAT
LOOKS LIKE A DISNEYLAND OF
DISASTERS.
ON THE DAY WE VISITED, FIRST
RESPONDERS WERE PRACTICING ON A
DERAILED RAIN, A SIMULATED
PROPANE LEAK AND A FIRE AT A
MOCK OIL REFINERY.
GENERAL DYNAMICS, THE
MANUFACTURER OF THE MUTT, IS
USING DISASTER CITY TO TEST THE
ROBOT IN A VARIETY OF REAL-WORLD
CONDITIONS.
DAVID MARTIN IS THE FACILITIES
PROGRAM DIRECTOR.
>> IT CAN BE UTILIZED FOR
TRANSPORT OF TAISHTS PATIENTS
IN-- OF PATIENTS INFECTED WITH
EBOLA, LIMITING THE EXPOSURE OF
PEOPLE WHO WOULD COME IN CONTACT
WITH THE PATIENT AND MAKE IT
MUCH EASIER FOR THEM TO MOVE
PATIENTS AROUND WITHOUT HAVING
TO SUIT UP A NUMBER OF PEOPLE TO
TRANSPORT THAT PATIENT.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER POTENTIAL
WEAPON ISHE XENEX
DECONTAMINATION ROBOT.
>> IT WILL GO UP --
>> Reporter: ALREADY USED IN
300 HOSPITALS, THE ROBOTS USE
U.V. LIGHT TO DISINFECT HOSPITAL
ROOMS.
C.E.O. OF XENEX --
>> YOU TURN IT ON, SET IT TO
RUN, THE TOP LIFTS UP, THE BULB
PULSES AS SOON AS ITS VISIBLE
AND GOES UP TO 52 INCHES AND
COMES BACK DOWN SO IT'S EXPOSING
ALL OF THE SURFACES IN A
HOSPITAL ROOM, IN AN OPERATING
ROOM TO THIS INTENSE XENON LAMP.
IT WILL LITERALLY KILL ANY VIRUS
OR SPORE THAT WE'VE EVER SEEN.
>> Reporter: SIMPLE TO USE,
THE ROBOTS ARE USUALLY OPERATED
BY HOSPITAL CLEANING CREWS IN
TWO FIVE-MINUTE SESSIONS.
ONE MACHINE WHICH COSTS $100,000
CAN TYPICALLY DECONTAMINATE UP
TO 50 ROOMS A DAY.
THE ROBOTS HAD REAL WORLD
TESTING WITH EBOLA LAST FALL.
THE MACHINES IN USE AT THE
DALLAS HOSPITAL WHERE ERIC
DUNCAN WAS UNSUCCESSFULLY
TREATED FOR EBOLA.
THE ROBOTS HAVE BEENOR
TWO YEARS IN SAN ANTONIO AT THE
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SYSTEM ANDHE
ROBOTS WERE PART OF AN EBOLA
RESPONSE PLAN THEY DEVELOPED.
>> WITH A PATIENT WITH THE
HERBALLA VIRUS, AT ALL TIMES
THEY MINIMIZED THE PATIENT'S
MOVEMENT AND KEPT THE AREAS
DECON TAM NAIVMENTD WE WANTED TO
USE THE XENEX MACHINE TO
DECONTAMINATE AREAS THROUGH
WHICH THE PATIENT PASSED
INCLUDING THE ELEVATOR.
>> Reporter: EARLIER THIS
MONTH A STUDY PUBLISHED IN THE
AMERICAN JOURNAL OF INFECTION
CONTROL RECOMMENDED THE XENEX
ROBOTS BE USED TO DISINFECT THE
SUITS CARE TAKERS WARE WHEN
TREATING THE PATIENTS.
IT CAN BE SIX TO EIGHT MONTHS
ROBOTS ARE DEPLOYED
TO AFRICA AND CONCEDES WITH THE
NUMBER OF EBOLA CASES DWINDLING,
THE NEED SEEMS LESS URGENT NOW
BUT SAYS ALL THE ROBOTIC WORK
THAT'S OCCURRED IN THE LAST FEW
MONTHS MEANS THEY WILL BE READY
WHEN THE NEXT INFECTIOUS DISEASE
OUTBREAK OCCURS.
IN COLLEGE STATION, TEXAS,
MARY JO BROOKS, TEXAS
"NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE PLOT
THICKENS FOR THE ARTS IN
AMERICA.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION FOR THE "NEWSHOUR
BOOKSHELF."
>> Brown: HAVE YOU BEEN TO THE
THEERKTS SEEN A MODERN DANCE
CONCERT?
HAVE YOUR CHILDREN?
WILL THOSE THEATER DANCE AND
OTHER ARTS INSTITUTIONS SURVIVE?
THE QUESTIONS ARE AT THE HEART
OF A NEW BOOK WITH A QUESTION IN
ITS TITLE, CURTAINS, THE FUTURE
OF THE ARTS IN AMERICA.
AUTHOR MICHAEL M. KAISER HAS
HEADED MANY ARTS ORGANIZATIONS
INCLUDING THE KENNEDY CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTICLES, THE
AMERICAN BALLY THEATER AND THE
DANCE TROUP AND HAS ARTS
MANAGEMENT AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MARYLAND.
WHAT'S THE ESSENTIAL PROBLEM?
IS IT ECONOMIC, CULTURAL?
>> WE FACE MANY CHALLENGES IN
THE ARTS FOR MANY YEARS BUT MORE
RECENTLY SO MUCH ENTERTAINMENT
AND ARTS ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE OR
IN MOVIE THEATERS AND THEY ARE
BECOMING VERY IMPORTANT
COMPETITORS TO THOSE WHO PRESENT
LIVE PERFORMANCES IN THEATERS.
>> Brown: JUST A NEW WORLD OF
TECHNOLOGY AND ENTERTAINMENT AND
CHOICES?
>> JUST AS NEWSPAPERS ARE
CHALLENGED BY THE EXISTENCE OF
ONLINE NEWS, SO ARE THEATERS AND
OPERA AND BALLET COMPANIES,
PARTICULARLY THOSE IN MID SIZE
CITIES COMPETING WITH THE VERY
LARGE ORGANIZATIONS WHOSE ART IS
AVAILABLE ELECTRONICALLY.
>> Brown: YOU'RE ALSO WRITING
ABOUT A FIRST GENERATION OF AN
AUDIENCE WHO HAVE GROWN UP
WITHOUT A KIND OF TRADITIONAL
ARTS EDUCATION, WITHOUT EXPOSURE
TO THE ARTS IN THE MEDIA, FOR
EXAMPLE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE -- I ENJOYED A GREAT ARTS
EDUCATION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL
SYSTEM WHEN I WAS GROWING UP,
BUT MOST CHILDREN TODAY DON'T.
SO WE HAVE A GENERATION OF
CHILDREN WHO ARE COMING OUT OF
HIGH SCHOOL WITHOUT THE KIND OF
BACKGROUND IN THE ARTS THAT I
HAD AND THAT MANY OF MY PEERS
HAD AND, AS A RESULT, AS THEY
AGE AND AS THEY WOULD TYPICALLY
BECOME MORE SUBSCRIBERS AND
DONORS AND BOARD MEMBERS, WE
WORRY THAT THEY WON'T BE THERE
FOR US AND THE ARTS IN THE
FUTURE.
>> Brown: AND YOU WRITE TOO
MANY PEOPLE FEEL LIKE THE ARTS
ARE RELEVANT TO THEM.  IT'S COME
TO THAT, NO CONNECTION?
>> BOTH BECAUSE OF THE EDUCATION
AND TICKET PRICING.
WE USE TICKET PRICES TO BALANCE
OUR BUDGETS FOR SO MANY YEARS,
OUR TICKETS HAVE GOTTEN SO
EXPENSIVE THAT MANY PEOPLE HAVE
FELT PRICED OUT TO HAVE MARKET
AND THOUGHT THE ARTS AREN'T FOR
THEM BECAUSE THEY SIMPLY CAN'T
AFFORD IT.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT STRUCK ME IN THE BOOK IS
SOMETHING WE TALK ABOUT A LOT IS
THE GAPS IN THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY -- THE INCOME GAP, THE
WEALTH GAP.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT KIND OF AN
ARTS GAP.
>> I AM.
>> Brown: ARTS FOR SOME, NOT
FOR OTHERS.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
WE ENJOYED OVER THE LAST 50
YEARS THIS EXPLOSION IN ARTS
ACCESSIBILITY TO PEOPLE ALL OVER
AMERICA.
WE EXPECT A THEATER COMPANY OR
DANCE COMPANY OR OPERA COMPANY
IN OUR TOWNS, EVEN MID-SIZED
TOWNS, AND WORRY THAT THAT
ACCESSIBILITY WILL CHANGE AND
DIMINISH IN THE NEXT 20 YEARS.
>> Brown: YOU TRAVEL AROUND
THE COUNTRY A LOT, WHERE IS THIS
HITTING?
>> IT'S HITTING ORCHESTRAS
FIRST.
WE HEAR SO MUCH ABOUT ORCHESTRA
UNION PROBLEMS AND UNION
NEGOTIATION PROBLEMS.
THAT'S JUST A MANIFESTATION OF
DIMINISHMENT IN TICKET SALES AND
CONTRIBUTIONS.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AROUND THE ARTS
WORLD RIGHT NOW YOU SEE MANY,
MANY ORGANIZATIONS EITHER DOING
LESS WORK OR GOING AWAY
ENTIRELY.
THIS IS TRUE PARTICULARLY OF
ARTS ORGANIZATIONS OF COLOR
WHICH IS AN IMPORTANT PART OF
OUR ARTS ECOLOGY THAT IS
STARTING TO SHRINK WHICH IS MORE
FRAGILE A ILL NOW AND WE'RE NOW
SEEING IT IN MID-SIZED AMERICAN
CITIES AND LARGE, CLASSICAL
ORGANIZATIONS AND I WORRY THEY
WON'T BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN
THEMSELVES.
>> Brown: WHAT YOU DO SEE WHEN
YOU WRITE ABOUT AND AGAIN WE SEE
IT IN SOCIETY AS WINNERS AND
LOSERS, SOME AT THE HIGH END
WILL DO WELL AND MANY AT THE LOW
END, BECAUSE THEY CAN GET ALONG
BASICALLY ON A SHOESTRING, IT'S
THE GREAT MIDDLE.
>> IT'S THE GREAT MIDDLE AT RISK
AND THAT'S WHO MNS OVER
THE LAST 50 YEARS.
>> Brown: WHAT'S TO BE DONE?
ARTS ORGANIZATIONS HAVE TO
GET MORE CREATIVE ABOUT THE
ACTUAL ARTS NAY MAKE.
SO MANY BOARDS AND STAFFS HAVE
TO DO WHAT PEOPLE WANT.
WE HAVE LOTS OF SWAN LAKES,
BUT --
>> Brown: DOESN'T THAT BRING
PEOPLE IN?
>> NOT IF THEY'RE AVAILABLE
ONLINE OR AT THE ROYAL OPERA
HOUSE, THEN YOU HAVE TO DO
SOMETHING THAT'S REALLY SPECIAL.
ARTISTS HAVE TO GET BACK TO
DREAMING AND STOP PLANNING ART
TO A BUDGET.
IF THEY'RE DOING GREAT WORK
CONSISTENTLY IT WILL KEEP ITS
AUDIENCE AND DONOR BASE.
>> Brown: SHOULD ARTS
ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGERS BE
THINKING OF THEIR INSTITUTIONS
MORE AS COMMODITIES, MORE AS
BUSINESSES OR --
>> WE ALWAYS HAD TO THINK OF
OURSELVES AS A BUSINESS TO THE
EXTENT THAT WE NEEDED TO BALANCE
OUR BUDGETS TO SUSTAIN
OURSELVES, BUT WE HAVE TO THINK
OF OURSELVES MORE AS CREATIVE
ENTERPRISES WHO DO REALLY
INTERESTING WORK THAT ENGAGES
OUR COMMUNITY AND THOSE
ORGANIZATIONS THAT DREAM BIG AND
CREATE AMAZING PROJECTS ARE
GOING TO DO VERY, VERY WELL.
>> Brown: I ASKED YOU FOR A
NEGATIVE EXAMPLE.
CAN YOU GIVE ME A POSITIVE
EXAMPLE?
>> THE OPERA COMPANIES IN
PHILADELPHIA AND ST. LOUIS DO
GREAT WORK AND EXCITING WORK AND
INTERESTING WORK.
THEY GET A LOT OF COVERAGE.
THEY'RE BOTH MID-SIZED OPERA
COMPANY.
THEY'RE NOT THE METROPOLITAN BUT
THEY MAINTAIN THE INTEREST OF
COMMUNITIES AND DONOR BASES
BECAUSE THEIR WORK IS SO
INTERESTING.
SO I THINK THE ORGANIZATIONS DO
INTERESTING WORK, THE ONES THAT
ARE GOING TO SURVIVE AND COMPETE
WELL AGAINST ONLINE ARTS.
>> Brown: SO THE QUESTION IN
THE TITLE "CURTAINS?" WHAT'S THE
ANSWER?
TO BE DETERMINED?
>> TO BE DETERMINED, I HOPE NOT.
>> Brown: THANK YOU, MICHAEL
M. KAISER.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY, TO OUR
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
TODAY, THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
ADDED 25 NEW SONGS AND
RECORDINGS TO ITS NATIONAL
REGISTRY TO ACKNOWLEDGE THEIR
CULTURAL, ARTISTIC AND HISTORIC
IMPORTANCE.
YOU MIGHT FIND SOME OF THEM
FAMILIAR.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND ALL THE
NEW INDUCTEES AT THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS WEBSITE: loc.gov.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
U.S. ARMY SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL
WAS CHARGED WITH DESERTION FOR
LEAVING HIS POST IN AFGHANISTAN
IN 2009.
HE WAS LATER CAPTURED BY THE
TALIBAN AND HELD BY THEM UNTIL
LAST YEAR.
SHIITE REBELS IN YEMEN DROVE THE
PRO-AMERICAN PRESIDENT FROM HIS
LAST REDOUBT.
THERE WERE SOME REPORTS HE FLED
THE COUNTRY BY BOAT.
AND INVESTIGATORS RECOVERED SOME
OF THE COCKPIT VOICE RECORDINGS
FROM THE GERMAN AIRLINER THAT
SMASHED INTO THE FRENCH ALPS,
KILLING 150 PEOPLE.
THEY COULD HAVE AN INITIAL
READOUT WITHIN DAYS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, WITH MARCH MADNESS IN
FULL SWING, YOU'VE LIKELY FILLED
OUT A BRACKET FOR THIS YEAR'S
COLLEGE BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS.
PERHAPS YOU EVEN PUT A DOLLAR OR
TWO IN THE POT.
BUT, AND THIS IS NO FUN, OUTSIDE
OF LAS VEGAS, BETTING ON ALMOST
ANY SPORTING EVENT IS ILLEGAL.
BUT SHOULD IT BE?
JOIN US AT 1:00 P.M. EASTERN
TOMORROW FOR A TWITTER CHAT ON
GAMBLING AND SPORTS.
OUR HANDLE IS @NEWSHOUR.
AND YOU CAN FIND MORE DETAILS ON
OUR HOMEPAGE.
THAT'S ON OUR WEB SITE,
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT HOW
INVESTORS ARE CASHING IN ON
FORECLOSURES IN FLORIDA.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.